[Doc][serve] Recipe for DeepSeek-V4 on NPU via Ray Serve + vLLM (#63617)
ray-project/ray: doc/source/serve/llm/npu-ascend.md

    --device /dev/davinci5 \
    --device /dev/davinci6 \
    --device /dev/davinci7 \
    --device /dev/davinci_manager \
    --device /dev/devmm_svm \
    --device /dev/hisi_hdc \
    -v /usr/local/dcmi:/usr/local/dcmi \
    -v /usr/local/Ascend/driver/tools/hccn_tool:/usr/local/Ascend/driver/tools/hccn_tool \
    -v /usr/local/bin/npu-smi:/usr/local/bin/npu-smi \
    -v /usr/local/Ascend/driver/lib64/:/usr/local/Ascend/driver/lib64/ \
    -v /usr/local/Ascend/driver/version.info:/usr/local/Ascend/driver/version.info \
    -v /etc/ascend_install.info:/etc/ascend_install.info \
    -v /etc/hccn.conf:/etc/hccn.conf \
    -v /root/.cache:/root/.cache \
    -it $IMAGE bash
```

## Step 3: Set Environment Variables

Set the following environment variables inside the Docker container:

```sh
export OMP_PROC_BIND=false
export OMP_NUM_THREADS=10
export PYTORCH_NPU_ALLOC_CONF=expandable_segments:True
export LD_PRELOAD=/usr/lib/aarch64-linux-gnu/libjemalloc.so.2:$LD_PRELOAD
export HCCL_BUFFSIZE=1024
export VLLM_ASCEND_ENABLE_FLASHCOMM1=1
export TASK_QUEUE_ENABLE=1
export HCCL_OP_EXPANSION_MODE="AIV"
```

## Step 4: Install Ray and Start the Ray Cluster

```sh
pip install ray[llm]
```

> > **Note:** The image includes Ray version 2.48.0, which does not support NPU. You need to install the latest version of Ray Serve to enable NPU accelerator type support. Daily builds can be obtained from [Daily Releases](https://docs.ray.io/en/latest/ray-overview/installation.html#daily-releases-nightlies). Before installing, confirm that the version includes NPU support.

Reviewer: does a later ray version support NPU?

Author: > does a later ray version support NPU?

Ray Serve does not natively support NPU as an LLM backend; you need to merge the code from this PR.

Reviewer: Gotcha. Can you adjust the descriptions to reflect the post-PR state -- the state after these changes have been merged?

Author: Done.

> # Deploy an LLM on Ascend NPU

Reviewer 2: The style guide asks you to [give every page a `description` in its MyST `html_meta` front matter](https://docs.ray.io/en/master/ray-contribute/writing-style.html#front-matter), which search engines and the page's social preview use. This page has no front matter at all.

Worth knowing that this directory is inconsistent: `index.md` has one, and `quick-start.md`, `examples.md`, `benchmarks.md`, and `troubleshooting.md` don't. So you'd be ahead of your neighbors rather than matching them. I'm asking anyway, because a new page is the cheap moment to add it and this one has an unusually specific audience worth reaching: someone searching for Ascend NPU or vLLM-Ascend serving won't find much else.

I matched the phrasing style of `index.md`, the one page here that has a description.

```suggestion
---
myst:
  html_meta:
    description: "Deploy DeepSeek-V4-Flash-w8a8-mtp on Huawei Ascend NPUs with Ray Serve LLM and vLLM-Ascend: Docker setup, NPU environment variables, Ray cluster startup, and an OpenAI-compatible endpoint."
---

# Deploy an LLM on Ascend NPU
```

Adjust the wording freely. The only thing I'd keep is naming both Ascend NPU and vLLM-Ascend, since those are the terms a reader would search for.

> This guide provides a step-by-step recipe for deploying DeepSeek-V4-Flash-w8a8-mtp (w8a8 quantized with multi-token prediction) on Huawei Ascend NPUs using [Ray Serve LLM](https://docs.ray.io/en/latest/serve/tutorials/deployment-serve-llm/medium-size-llm/README.html) and [vLLM-Ascend](https://github.com/vllm-project/vllm-ascend), enabling scalable, efficient, and OpenAI-compatible LLM serving on Ascend NPU hardware. If you want to deploy other large language models, you can combine the approach in this guide with the deployment solutions for other models provided in the [vLLM-Ascend documentation](https://docs.vllm.ai/projects/ascend/en/latest/tutorials/models/index.html).

Reviewer 2: Three things here, and the link is the one that matters.

**The `docs.ray.io/en/latest/` link points into this repo.** It resolves to "Deploy a medium-sized LLM," which `examples.md` in this same PR already links as `{doc}` with an absolute path. Using the cross-reference means the link tracks page moves and stays on the reader's version instead of jumping them to the last release.

**Cut the benefits clause.** `enabling scalable, efficient, and OpenAI-compatible LLM serving on Ascend NPU hardware` is the kind of [benefits list the guide tells you to cut](https://docs.ray.io/en/master/ray-contribute/writing-style.html#cut-benefits-lists). The reader is already here; they don't need to be sold.

**Split the sentence.** It's about 90 words carrying two links and a parenthetical, and the guide asks you to [open a page with one or two sentences that say what it covers](https://docs.ray.io/en/master/ray-contribute/writing-style.html#write-for-humans).

```suggestion
This guide is a step-by-step recipe for deploying DeepSeek-V4-Flash-w8a8-mtp on Huawei Ascend NPUs with {doc}`Ray Serve LLM </_collections/serve/tutorials/deployment-serve-llm/medium-size-llm/README>` and [vLLM-Ascend](https://github.com/vllm-project/vllm-ascend). The model is w8a8 quantized with multi-token prediction. To deploy a different model, combine the approach here with the per-model deployment guidance in the [vLLM-Ascend documentation](https://docs.vllm.ai/projects/ascend/en/latest/tutorials/models/index.html).
```

I took the `{doc}` target verbatim from your own addition to `examples.md`, so it's the same path that file already uses. If you meant to link the Ray Serve LLM landing page rather than the medium-size-LLM tutorial, that's `[Ray Serve LLM](index.md)` instead.

> ## Step 1: Download Model Weights

Reviewer 2: The style guide asks for [sentence case in headings](https://docs.ray.io/en/master/ray-contribute/writing-style.html#headings): first word and proper nouns only. Five of the six `Step N:` headings need it (Step 5 is already correct), and I've left a one-line suggestion on each. Nothing in Ray's CI catches heading case, so it's a human check every time.

```suggestion
## Step 1: Download model weights
```

> `DeepSeek-V4-Flash-w8a8-mtp` (Quantized version): requires 1 Atlas 800 A3 (128G × 8) node or 1 Atlas 800 A2 (64G × 8) node. [Download model weights](https://www.modelscope.cn/models/Eco-Tech/DeepSeek-V4-Flash-w8a8-mtp)

Reviewer 2: This reads as a fragment, with the colon doing the work a verb should do. Two smaller things while you're here:

- The guide asks you to [spell out zero through nine in prose](https://docs.ray.io/en/master/ray-contribute/writing-style.html#numbers-and-units), so `1 Atlas 800 A3` becomes `one Atlas 800 A3`. The specs inside the parentheses stay as numerals.
- `(Quantized version)` duplicates the `w8a8` already in the filename.

The line is also missing its closing period.

I've left the `128G × 8` and `64G × 8` sizing exactly as you wrote it.

```suggestion
`DeepSeek-V4-Flash-w8a8-mtp` requires one Atlas 800 A3 node (128G × 8) or one Atlas 800 A2 node (64G × 8). [Download the model weights](https://www.modelscope.cn/models/Eco-Tech/DeepSeek-V4-Flash-w8a8-mtp).
```

> It is recommended to download the model weights to a shared directory accessible by multiple nodes, such as `/root/.cache/`

Reviewer 2: `It is recommended to` is passive with no actor, where the guide asks you to [turn a recommendation into direct advice](https://docs.ray.io/en/master/ray-contribute/writing-style.html#turn-hedging-into-direct-advice) and to [use the imperative for instructions](https://docs.ray.io/en/master/ray-contribute/writing-style.html#use-the-imperative-for-instructions). The line is also missing its closing period.

```suggestion
Download the model weights to a shared directory that all nodes can reach, such as `/root/.cache/`.
```

> ## Step 2: Start the Docker Container

Reviewer 2: Sentence case, as in the Step 1 heading comment. `Docker` stays capitalized as a proper noun.

```suggestion
## Step 2: Start the Docker container
```

This guide demonstrates single-node deployment of DeepSeek-V4-Flash-w8a8-mtp on an Atlas 800 A2 node. For A3 series deployment, refer to the [vLLM-Ascend DeepSeek-V4-Flash tutorial](https://docs.vllm.ai/projects/ascend/en/latest/tutorials/models/DeepSeek-V4-Flash.html). You can use the official Docker image to run DeepSeek-V4 directly — for the latest available versions, see the [vllm-ascend image tags](https://quay.io/repository/ascend/vllm-ascend) on Quay.io. The docker run command below is tailored to a single-node Atlas 800 A2. Adjust the --device entries and volume mounts to match your hardware and model, and refer to the [vLLM-Ascend documentation](https://docs.vllm.ai/projects/ascend/en/latest/tutorials/models/index.html) for model-specific guidance.

> You can use the official Docker image to run `DeepSeek-V4` directly. Adjust the component versions in the image as follows:

Reviewer 2: This paragraph is doing too much at once, and it ends up repeating itself: `You can use the official Docker image to run DeepSeek-V4 directly` appears here and again as the first sentence of the next paragraph.

Also in scope:

- The em dash before `for the latest available versions`. The guide asks you to [restructure rather than use dashes in prose](https://docs.ray.io/en/master/ray-contribute/writing-style.html#sentence-structure).
- Two instances of `refer to`, which the guide [replaces with "See"](https://docs.ray.io/en/master/ray-contribute/writing-style.html#streamline-references).
- `--device` and `docker run` read better as code than as bare prose.

```suggestion
This guide covers single-node deployment of DeepSeek-V4-Flash-w8a8-mtp on an Atlas 800 A2 node. For A3 series deployment, see the [vLLM-Ascend DeepSeek-V4-Flash tutorial](https://docs.vllm.ai/projects/ascend/en/latest/tutorials/models/DeepSeek-V4-Flash.html).

You can run `DeepSeek-V4` directly from the official Docker image. For the available versions, see the [vllm-ascend image tags](https://quay.io/repository/ascend/vllm-ascend) on Quay.io. The `docker run` command below targets a single-node Atlas 800 A2, so adjust the `--device` entries and the volume mounts to match your hardware and model. For model-specific guidance, see the [vLLM-Ascend documentation](https://docs.vllm.ai/projects/ascend/en/latest/tutorials/models/index.html).

Adjust the component versions in the image as follows:
```

| Package | Version |
|---------|---------|
| vllm | 0.22.1 |
| vllm-ascend | 0.22.1 |
| torch | 2.10.0 |
| torch-npu | 2.10.0 |
| cann | 9.0.0 |

```sh
export IMAGE=quay.io/ascend/vllm-ascend:v0.22.1rc1
docker run --rm \
    --name vllm-ascend \
    --shm-size=512g \
    --net=host \
    --privileged=true \
    --device /dev/davinci0 \
    --device /dev/davinci1 \
    --device /dev/davinci2 \
    --device /dev/davinci3 \
    --device /dev/davinci4 \
    --device /dev/davinci5 \
    --device /dev/davinci6 \
    --device /dev/davinci7 \
    --device /dev/davinci_manager \
    --device /dev/devmm_svm \
    --device /dev/hisi_hdc \
    -v /usr/local/dcmi:/usr/local/dcmi \
    -v /usr/local/Ascend/driver/tools/hccn_tool:/usr/local/Ascend/driver/tools/hccn_tool \
    -v /usr/local/bin/npu-smi:/usr/local/bin/npu-smi \
    -v /usr/local/Ascend/driver/lib64/:/usr/local/Ascend/driver/lib64/ \
    -v /usr/local/Ascend/driver/version.info:/usr/local/Ascend/driver/version.info \
    -v /etc/ascend_install.info:/etc/ascend_install.info \
    -v /etc/hccn.conf:/etc/hccn.conf \
    -v /root/.cache:/root/.cache \
    -it $IMAGE bash
```

> ## Step 3: Set Environment Variables

Reviewer 2: Sentence case, as in the Step 1 heading comment.

```suggestion
## Step 3: Set environment variables
```

> NPU environment variables are required, but specific values vary across models and deployment scenarios (single-node vs. multi-node, prefill-decode disaggregation, etc.). Refer to the [vLLM-Ascend documentation](https://docs.vllm.ai/projects/ascend/en/latest/tutorials/models/index.html) for the recommended values for your model.

Reviewer 2: Three word-choice items the guide names explicitly:

- `vs.` becomes ["versus"](https://docs.ray.io/en/master/ray-contribute/writing-style.html#use-words-for-symbols-in-prose) in prose.
- `etc.` after a parenthesized example list is [what the guide asks you to drop](https://docs.ray.io/en/master/ray-contribute/writing-style.html#don-t-write-etc-after-such-as-for-example-or-including). "such as" already signals the list is partial.
- `Refer to` becomes ["See"](https://docs.ray.io/en/master/ray-contribute/writing-style.html#streamline-references).

```suggestion
NPU environment variables are required, but the values vary by model and deployment scenario, such as single-node versus multi-node or prefill-decode disaggregation. For the recommended values for your model, see the [vLLM-Ascend documentation](https://docs.vllm.ai/projects/ascend/en/latest/tutorials/models/index.html).
```

The following is an example for DeepSeek-V4-Flash-w8a8-mtp on an Atlas 800 A2 single-node deployment:

```sh
export OMP_PROC_BIND=false
export OMP_NUM_THREADS=10
export PYTORCH_NPU_ALLOC_CONF=expandable_segments:True
export LD_PRELOAD=/usr/lib/aarch64-linux-gnu/libjemalloc.so.2:$LD_PRELOAD
export HCCL_BUFFSIZE=1024
export VLLM_ASCEND_ENABLE_FLASHCOMM1=1
export TASK_QUEUE_ENABLE=1
export HCCL_OP_EXPANSION_MODE="AIV"
```

> ## Step 4: Install Ray and Start the Ray Cluster

Reviewer 2: Sentence case, as in the Step 1 heading comment. `Ray` stays capitalized.

```suggestion
## Step 4: Install Ray and start the Ray cluster
```

```sh
pip install "ray[llm]"
```

> > **Note:** The image includes Ray version 2.48.0, which does not support NPU. You need to install a version of Ray that includes NPU support (NPUConfig, NPUAccelerator).

Reviewer 2: **On the content of this note, I'm deferring to @jeffreywang88's [open thread](https://github.com/ray-project/ray/pull/63617#discussion_r3662451159)** about describing the post-merge state, and to his [related point](https://github.com/ray-project/ray/pull/63617#discussion_r3478515128) about not requiring a patch in the doc. Whatever this note ends up saying is between you and him, and my suggestion below keeps your current wording untouched.

What I'm asking for is only the container. The guide asks you to [use MyST admonitions rather than a bold inline label](https://docs.ray.io/en/master/ray-contribute/writing-style.html#admonitions), and a blockquote with `**Note:**` renders as an indented paragraph rather than a callout, so it's easy to skim past. This is a prerequisite that will break the whole recipe if missed, so `important` fits it better than `note`.

```suggestion
:::{important}
The image includes Ray version 2.48.0, which does not support NPU. You need to install a version of Ray that includes NPU support (NPUConfig, NPUAccelerator).
:::
```

If that text changes on Jeffrey's thread, keep the `:::{important}` wrapper and swap the sentence inside it.

Start the Ray cluster and verify that it is running:

```sh
ray start --head
ray status
```

## Step 5: Configure Ray Serve LLM

> Create a Python script (e.g., `serve_npu.py`) with the following content. For more details on how to use Ray Serve LLM to deploy LLMs, refer to the [Ray Serve LLM documentation](https://docs.ray.io/en/latest/serve/llm/index.html).

Reviewer 2: Two word-choice fixes and one link:

- `e.g.,` becomes ["for example"](https://docs.ray.io/en/master/ray-contribute/writing-style.html#use-such-as-not-like-for-examples) in prose.
- `refer to` becomes ["See"](https://docs.ray.io/en/master/ray-contribute/writing-style.html#streamline-references).
- The `docs.ray.io/en/latest/serve/llm/index.html` URL points at `index.md`, the page sitting next to this one. A plain Markdown link between `.md` pages is build-verified and follows the reader's version.

```suggestion
Create a Python script, for example `serve_npu.py`, with the following content. For more on deploying LLMs with Ray Serve LLM, see the [Ray Serve LLM documentation](index.md).
```

```python
from ray.serve.llm import LLMConfig, build_openai_app
from ray import serve

llm_config = LLMConfig(
    model_loading_config=dict(
        model_id="deepseek-v4-flash",
        model_source="/root/.cache/DeepSeek-V4-Flash-w8a8-mtp",
    ),
    deployment_config={
        "autoscaling_config": {
            "min_replicas": 1,
            "max_replicas": 1,
        },
    },
    runtime_env={  
        "env_vars": {  
            "VLLM_USE_V1": "1"
        }  
    },
    accelerator_config={"kind":"npu"},
    engine_kwargs=dict(
        tensor_parallel_size=8,
        distributed_executor_backend="ray",
        data_parallel_size=1,
        quantization="ascend",
        enable_expert_parallel=True,
        trust_remote_code=True,
    )
)

app = build_openai_app({"llm_configs": [llm_config]})
serve.run(app, blocking=True)
```

Run the deployment:

```sh
python serve_npu.py
```

> ## Step 6: Send Requests

Reviewer 2: Sentence case, as in the Step 1 heading comment.

```suggestion
## Step 6: Send requests
```

> You can query the deployed model with cURL:

Reviewer 2: `cURL` is the project's own branding for the tool, but in prose the command is `curl`. Google's style guide, which Ray falls back to, uses the lowercase command form.

```suggestion
Query the deployed model with `curl`:
```

```sh
curl http://localhost:8000/v1/chat/completions \
    -H "Content-Type: application/json" \
    -d '{

>         "model": "dsv4",

Reviewer 2: **A question rather than a suggestion, because I don't know which value you intended.** This request asks for `"model": "dsv4"`, but `model_loading_config` in Step 5 sets `model_id="deepseek-v4-flash"`. Ray Serve LLM routes on the `model_id`, so a reader who follows every step in order should get an error on this last one.

Two ways to reconcile it, and you'd know which is right:

- The `model_id` is what you meant, and this should be `"model": "deepseek-v4-flash"`.
- `dsv4` is what you actually ran with, and Step 5's `model_id` should be `dsv4`.

I'd lean toward the first, since `deepseek-v4-flash` is the more self-describing of the two and matches the weights directory, but that's a preference and the correctness call is yours. Worth fixing either way: the last step of a recipe is the one readers file issues about.

| vllm | 0.22.0 |
| vllm-ascend | 0.21.0 |
| torch | 2.10.0 |
| torch-npu | 2.10.0 |
| torchvision | 2.25.0 |
| cann | 9.0.0 |

```sh
export IMAGE=quay.io/ascend/vllm-ascend:v0.21.0rc1
export NAME=vllm-ascend

docker run --rm \
  --name $NAME \
  --net=host \
  --shm-size=512g \
  --device /dev/davinci0 \
  --device /dev/davinci1 \
  --device /dev/davinci2 \
  --device /dev/davinci3 \
  --device /dev/davinci4 \
  --device /dev/davinci5 \
  --device /dev/davinci6 \
  --device /dev/davinci7 \
  --device /dev/davinci_manager \
  --device /dev/devmm_svm \
  --device /dev/hisi_hdc \
  -v /usr/local/dcmi:/usr/local/dcmi \
  -v /usr/local/Ascend/driver/tools/hccn_tool:/usr/local/Ascend/driver/tools/hccn_tool \
  -v /usr/local/bin/npu-smi:/usr/local/bin/npu-smi \
  -v /usr/local/Ascend/driver/lib64/:/usr/local/Ascend/driver/lib64/ \
  -v /usr/local/Ascend/driver/version.info:/usr/local/Ascend/driver/version.info \
  -v /etc/ascend_install.info:/etc/ascend_install.info \
  -v /etc/hccn.conf:/etc/hccn.conf \
  -v /root/.cache:/root/.cache \
  -it $IMAGE bash
```

## Step 3: Set Environment Variables

Set the following environment variables inside the Docker container:

```sh

> export OMP_PROC_BIND=false

Reviewer: could we provide a dockerfile in the example (maybe not directly in the markdown, but somewhere nearby) so that users only need to write ray serve llm application code to run the example?

Author: > could we provide a dockerfile in the example (maybe not directly in the markdown, but somewhere nearby) so that users only need to write ray serve llm application code to run the example?

Great news: vllm-ascend v0.22.1 is released, and deploying DeepSeek-V4 no longer requires manually patching vLLM. Regarding your suggestion of baking environment variables into a Dockerfile — tuning parameters vary significantly across different models, and hardcoding them would make the image only suitable for a single model.

Reviewer: good to know! does this mean that a Ray Serve LLM deployment will succeed if I start a container using `quay.io/ascend/vllm-ascend:v0.22.1rc1` and then run `pip install ray[llm]`? can we provide a link to vllm-ascend documentation for where to find the latest image?

are all of these environment variables and `docker run` arguments necessary? if they vary across models and deployment strategy (e.g. kuberay or VM), we should remove them.

Author: >does this mean that a Ray Serve LLM deployment will succeed if I start a container using quay.io/ascend/vllm-ascend:v0.22.1rc1 and then run pip install ray[llm]?

Yes, but first you need to merge this PR to enable Ray Serve to support NPU as an LLM backend.

>can we provide a link to vllm-ascend documentation for where to find the latest image?

Done — added to the npu-ascend.md doc, in Step 2.

>all of these environment variables and docker run arguments necessary? if they vary across models and deployment strategy (e.g. kuberay or VM), we should remove them.

These environment variables and docker run arguments vary by model and hardware, but the npu-ascend.md doc notes that users should consult the vLLM-Ascend documentation and adjust them based on the model and deployment scenario. The environment variables in the npu-ascend.md doc are provided as an example for DeepSeek-V4-Flash on a single-node A2 deployment.

export OMP_NUM_THREADS=10
export PYTORCH_NPU_ALLOC_CONF=expandable_segments:True
export LD_PRELOAD=/usr/lib/aarch64-linux-gnu/libjemalloc.so.2:$LD_PRELOAD
export HCCL_BUFFSIZE=1024
export VLLM_ASCEND_ENABLE_FLASHCOMM1=1
export TASK_QUEUE_ENABLE=1
export HCCL_OP_EXPANSION_MODE="AIV"
```

## Step 4: Install Ray Serve and Start the Ray Cluster

```sh

> pip install "ray[serve]"

Reviewer: don't we need `ray[llm]`? can you paste a screenshot for the server and the client sending request and receiving responses?

Author: > don't we need `ray[llm]`? can you paste a screenshot for the server and the client sending request and receiving responses?

I didn't install Ray Serve or Ray LLM. I downloaded the latest Ray from the daily builds and added NPU-related modifications. It worked because the vllm-ascend image already ships vllm and runtime dependencies. However, pip install "ray[llm]" is the correct and safer approach. I'm verifying this on our internal network, so I can't share the images externally.

ray start --head
```

> **Note:** The image includes Ray version 2.48.0, which does not support NPU. You need to install the latest version of Ray Serve to enable NPU accelerator type support. Daily builds can be obtained from [Daily Releases](https://docs.ray.io/en/latest/ray-overview/installation.html#daily-releases-nightlies). Before installing, confirm that the version includes NPU support.

Verify that the Ray cluster is running:

```sh
ray status
```

## Step 5: Patching

File to modify: vllm/model_executor/layers/rotary_embedding/common.py

Source code:
```python

> @CustomOp.register("apply_rotary_emb")

Reviewer: can this be fixed upstream?
